# Preparing for CS I (CS 141)

## Reviewing CS 0 (CS 121) material

Computer Science is a subject where you typically learn by doing. This means that you also tend to forget by _not doing_. If it has been a quarter or few since you last coded, it is recommended that you get back in the habit before starting CS I. One way that you can do this is by working through several problems on [codingbat.com](http://codingbat.com/python).

It is expected that coming into CS 141 you are _already exposed to_ the following concepts:
  - The following constructs (in Python or another language): _variables_, _functions_, _conditionals_ (if/elif/else), _loops_ (while/for), _strings_ and associated operations, _lists_
  - How and why to use _pseudocode_ to plan code
  - How to read and work with unfamiliar code

## Why Preview CS 141 Material?

Previewing material allows you to to gain exposure to a concept before tackling the computational thinking behind the concept. When you see material at a high level beforehand, you are able to become familiar with vocabulary and reflect on how this new concept relates to the concepts you already know.

The purpose of previewing material is NOT to understand the material at 100%.

The purpose of previewing material is to gain a high level understanding of the concept.

## CS 141 Preview Resources

Below you will find links to various resources related to the concepts that you will see in CS 141. **You do NOT need to preview every single link.** Several are provided so that you can see which links work best for you.

- Chapter 1: Introduction to Java
- Chapter 2: Primitive Data and Definite Loops
- Chapter 3: Parameters and Graphics
- Chapter 4: Conditional Execution
- Chapter 5: Program Logic and Indefinite Loops
- Chapter 6: File Processing
- Chapter 7: Arrays
- Chapter 8: Classes
- Chapter 9: Inheritance and Interfaces
- Chapter 10: ArrayLists
